Expand on "eager aggregation" (#684)
ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap: draft-ietf-ppm-dap.md

an output share, the Aggregators check whether its report ID has already been
aggregated and whether the batch bucket being updated has been collected.

### Eager Aggregation {#eager-aggregation}

In general, aggregation cannot begin until the Collector specifies a query and
an aggregation parameter. However, depending on the VDAF and batch mode in use,
it is often possible to begin aggregation as soon as reports arrive. For
example, Prio3 has just one valid aggregation parameter (the empty string), and
thus allows for eager aggregation. Both the time-interval and leader-selected
batch modes defined in this document ({{batch-modes}}) allow for eager
aggregation. Or if the VDAF in use does have a non-trivial aggregation
parameter, there might be some way the Aggregators can anticipate the parameter

> the Collector will choose and begin aggregation. In such cases, it's important

Author: Are attribute based metrics possible in Poplar1? I thought you needed Mastic for that. I put together a Poplar1 based example but I agree that it's contrived.

> the Collector will choose and begin aggregation. In such cases, it's important

Reviewer: It is indeed possible, but you get pretty limited functionality. Basically you can only do Prio3Count.

that Aggregators ensure that the parameter eventually chosen by the Collector

> matches what they used. Re-preparing the reports with a new aggregation
> parameter can violate privacy, so Aggregators must take care. If they guess the
> wrong parameter, the reports can never be aggregated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matches what they used. Depending on the VDAF, aggregating reports with multiple aggregation parameters new aggregation may impact privacy. Aggregators must therefore ensure they only use the aggregation parameter chosen by the Collector.
```

> 

Reviewer: We should also mention in this section how batch modes might or might not affect eager aggregation. I imagine this matters only if the batch mode requires so much flexibility that we can't define batch buckets. Imagine for example you wanted SQL-like queries.

Reviewer: Bump

Author: It's at the end of the paragraph above:

> Both the time-interval and leader-selected batch modes defined in this document ({{batch-modes}}) allow for eager aggregation, but future batch modes might preclude it.

an output share, the Aggregators check whether its report ID has already been
aggregated and whether the batch bucket being updated has been collected.

### Eager Aggregation {#eager-aggregation}

In general, aggregation cannot begin until the Collector specifies a query and
an aggregation parameter. However, depending on the VDAF and batch mode in use,
it is often possible to begin aggregation as soon as reports arrive.

For example, Prio3 has just one valid aggregation parameter (the empty string),
and so allows for eager aggregation. Both the time-interval and leader-selected
batch modes defined in this document ({{batch-modes}}) allow for eager

> aggregation, but future batch modes might preclude it.

Reviewer: This sentence ("Both the time-interval, ...") doesn't really belong here. Perhaps move to a new paragraph below as part of https://github.com/ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap/pull/684/files#r2054422312.

Author: This paragraph discusses how VDAF and batch mode affect the possibiity of eager aggregation, following directly from the previous paragraph. It makes sense to me.

> If the VDAF in use does have a non-trivial aggregation parameter, there might be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even when the VDAF uses a non-empty aggregation parameter, there still might be
```

> some applications inw which the Aggregators can anticipate the parameter the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
some applications in which the Aggregators can anticipate the parameter the
```

and begin aggregation. For example, when using Poplar1 ({{Section 8 of !VDAF}}),
the Collector and Aggregators might agree ahead of time on the set of candidate

> prefixes to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prefixes to use. However this depends on the application.
```

Author: Sure, I added the word "application" earlier in the paragraph.

> Collector will choose and begin aggregation. For example, when using Poplar1
> ({{Section 8 of !VDAF}}), the Collector and Aggregators might agree ahead of
> time on the set of candidate prefixes to use.
> 
> In such cases, it's important that Aggregators ensure that the parameter

Reviewer: Eh
```suggestion
Collector will choose and begin aggregation.

For example, when using Poplar1
({{Section 8 of !VDAF}}), the Collector and Aggregators might agree ahead of
time on the set of candidate prefixes to use.
In such cases, it's important that Aggregators ensure that the parameter
```
